Each of the following analyses and the roadmap must address the CERF Objectives: 

* Equity: Analyses must consider the needs and the interest of diverse communities across the region, with an explicit intention to include populations historically excluded from planning and economic development processes, especially disinvested communities.   
* Sustainability: Analyses must focus on economic development that is self-sustaining and aims at a carbon-neutral, climate-resilient economy addressing the needs of the region’s communities.  
* Job quality and access: Analyses must prioritize jobs that provide a family-sustaining wage, health benefits, a pension, worker advancement opportunities, a safety net, and collective worker input. These jobs are stable, with predictable schedules, and safe working conditions.    
* Economic competitiveness and resilience: Analyses must focus on strategies to avoid, withstand, and recover from economic shocks so that the CERF Region can compete effectively in the global economy and deliver prosperity to communities in the region.

**Regional Plan: Part 1**

The first part of the regional plan presents a baseline of the region. It considers the region’s stakeholders, assesses the factors affecting the region’s economic, environmental, and health conditions, and conducts detailed economic and workforce analyses. The intention is to ensure that the plans take a full account of the factors shaping economic development in the region before developing strategies for recovery and transition.

Conduct the following analyses. In each section, summarize findings and explain how these findings inform the planning process and how they correspond with the Collaborative’s goals.

***1\. Stakeholder Mapping***

A snapshot of the historically active stakeholders that can influence creating a High Road economy in the CERF Region and/or benefit from it.

* Provide the list of organizations and entities and discuss their potential role in developing the plan and engaging in the Implementation Phase. These stakeholders may include but are not limited to employers, businesses, community-based organizations, community members and residents, government and economic development agencies, labor organizations, philanthropic organizations, academic institutions, education and training providers, workforce entities, and industries.

* Overview of the state of disinvested communities in the region. Discuss how and in which areas these communities face economic barriers. Include a snapshot of the plan to outreach to organizations that represent these communities and how the HRTC intends to ensure their active participation.

* Create and show a network of existing partners and their existing regional and subregional plans, strategies, and related reports to demonstrate synergies, potentials, and challenges.

* Clarify opportunities for collaborations and partnerships.