Each of the following analyses and the roadmap must address the CERF Objectives: 

* Equity: Analyses must consider the needs and the interest of diverse communities across the region, with an explicit intention to include populations historically excluded from planning and economic development processes, especially disinvested communities.   
* Sustainability: Analyses must focus on economic development that is self-sustaining and aims at a carbon-neutral, climate-resilient economy addressing the needs of the region’s communities.  
* Job quality and access: Analyses must prioritize jobs that provide a family-sustaining wage, health benefits, a pension, worker advancement opportunities, a safety net, and collective worker input. These jobs are stable, with predictable schedules, and safe working conditions.    
* Economic competitiveness and resilience: Analyses must focus on strategies to avoid, withstand, and recover from economic shocks so that the CERF Region can compete effectively in the global economy and deliver prosperity to communities in the region.

**Regional Plan: Part 1**

The first part of the regional plan presents a baseline of the region. It considers the region’s stakeholders, assesses the factors affecting the region’s economic, environmental, and health conditions, and conducts detailed economic and workforce analyses. The intention is to ensure that the plans take a full account of the factors shaping economic development in the region before developing strategies for recovery and transition.

Conduct the following analyses. In each section, summarize findings and explain how these findings inform the planning process and how they correspond with the Collaborative’s goals.

***2\. Regional Summary***

A summary background of the demographic and socio-economic conditions of the region, highlighting areas with low and high economic diversification and resiliency, as well as any industry trends that impact the regional economy. The regional summary must identify regional inequities, such as economic, health, and environmental inequities, currently facing communities in the region.

The regional summary must include the following analysis and discussion: i. Economy and Economic Development 

* Identify economic development opportunities and forces in the region.

* Review inequities in economic development across the region.

* Identify major low- and high- wage industries and occupations in the region.  
  • Explore economic well-being and cost of living across the region.

* Economic Shocks: Discuss the impacts caused by economic shocks (e.g., pandemics, natural disasters) or longer-term economic shifts (e.g.., global market signals, automation, policy levers) in the region. These include economic harm to communities (i.e., workers, small businesses, impacted industries, the public sector, and selected regions and populations) as well as the potential for new economic development opportunities.

ii. Climate and Environmental Impact: Identify anticipated climate impacts and the factors that increase the region’s vulnerability to those impacts

* Identify short term and long-term impacts of climate change on the people and economy of the region. These include disproportionate impacts on disinvested communities and expected increases in occupational hazards for workers.

* Identify major sources of air pollution, water pollution, toxic and hazardous waste   
  and their impacts on diverse communities, especially disinvested communities.

* Identify major sources of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions and their impacts on diverse communities, especially disinvested communities.

* Assess impacts of climate change on targeted emerging industries, sectors, or clusters and how these impacts might hinder success of the proposed plans and transition strategies (e.g., damage to critical infrastructure, loss of productivity, loss of population).

iii. Public Health Analysis:

* Provide a snapshot of the impacts of the current economic trends and climate change effects on public health, especially the impacts on disinvested communities.

* Explore the main causes of chronic illnesses and diseases in the region, and whether and how they are related to economic inequalities, climate impacts, environmental factors, etc.

* Analyze health disparities across the region, disaggregated by race, gender, and other demographics.