CJF Thrive Inland SoCal Strategy development: SRT feedback

3 April 2024

For the past few months, the Thrive research team has been hard at work
on CJF strategy development. Before we get any further, we'd like to
share what we've learned so far, the insights and possibilities we've
identified, and the questions we plan to explore in the coming weeks.

We've put together these 15 summaries to give you the opportunity to
step inside the process and help shape the region's CJF strategies while
they're still in development. Each SRT has expertise on its subregion's
priorities, opportunities, and needs. This local knowledge will help the
research team strengthen and tailor strategies to better reflect
on-the-ground realities across the region.

A few recommendations before you review the strategy summaries:

-   Set aside sufficient time to read through the summaries. You might
    want to break up the task into a few chunks.

-   As you read the summaries, write down any questions, comments, and
    ideas that come to mind. Be sure to note:

    -   Any existing or planned activities in your subregion that relate
        to the focus areas

    -   Concerns or priorities in your subregion related to the focus
        areas that the research team should know about

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   Bring your notes with you to the next SRT meeting, which will focus
    on providing feedback for the research team.

-   Share your insights, questions, and ideas in the SRT meeting
    discussion.

# Why these focus areas?

The focus areas emerged from CJF Phase 1 research findings as well as
the Phase 2 parameters set forth by the state. Using this information,
the research team determined where strategic action could make the
biggest difference in advancing Inland Southern California's transition
to a more inclusive and carbon-free regional economy (that is, how best
to advance the goals of California Jobs First).

We've divided the focus areas into two categories, both which are
essential for inclusive regional economic development:

-   *Sector-specific strategies for priority tradable clusters*, chosen
    for their ability to create quality jobs, bring money into the
    region, and provide sustainable economic growth

-   *Sector-neutral strategies for wealth-building and economic mobility
    *that expand residents' access to quality jobs and encourage
    entrepreneurship and small business success

Examples:

-   Talent pipelines to quality jobs in other sectors

-   Entrepreneurship and small business supports \[particularly for
    business owners from historically underrepresented communities\]

-   Childcare availability and accessibility

-   Employer-supported workforce housing

*Please see the CJF Strategic Plan Outline handout for more detail on
the structure and content of the final report.*

# What about topics of concern beyond these categories?

While many factors affect people's quality of life and financial
stability, the state has limited the CJF focus to those issues with a
direct connection to quality job creation and access. Critical issues
such as food security, mental health, affordable housing, and parks and
libraries---though vitally important---are beyond the scope of the CJF
initiative.

# What's next?

-   Review the summaries, make some notes, and share your thoughts at
    the next SRT meeting

-   CSE will work with the SRT leads to gather feedback from all of the
    SRT conversations and share it with the research team.

-   The research team will review all feedback and continue working on
    strategy development.

-   A second round of progress summaries from the research team will be
    shared with SRTs in mid-May.

-   The full report draft will be shared with SRTs and other key
    stakeholders in June.
