Each of the following analyses and the roadmap must address the CERF Objectives: 

* Equity: Analyses must consider the needs and the interest of diverse communities across the region, with an explicit intention to include populations historically excluded from planning and economic development processes, especially disinvested communities.   
* Sustainability: Analyses must focus on economic development that is self-sustaining and aims at a carbon-neutral, climate-resilient economy addressing the needs of the region’s communities.  
* Job quality and access: Analyses must prioritize jobs that provide a family-sustaining wage, health benefits, a pension, worker advancement opportunities, a safety net, and collective worker input. These jobs are stable, with predictable schedules, and safe working conditions.    
* Economic competitiveness and resilience: Analyses must focus on strategies to avoid, withstand, and recover from economic shocks so that the CERF Region can compete effectively in the global economy and deliver prosperity to communities in the region. 

**Regional Plan: Part 1**

The first part of the regional plan presents a baseline of the region. It considers the region’s stakeholders, assesses the factors affecting the region’s economic, environmental, and health conditions, and conducts detailed economic and workforce analyses. The intention is to ensure that the plans take a full account of the factors shaping economic development in the region before developing strategies for recovery and transition.

Conduct the following analyses. In each section, summarize findings and explain how these findings inform the planning process and how they correspond with the Collaborative’s goals.

***5\. SWOT Analysis***

An in-depth analysis of regional Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, and Threats (i.e., SWOT), especially as it relates to equitable economic resilience and growth of sustainable industry clusters. The SWOT analysis will draw from data and components through conducting the above analyses.